---
date: 2019-11-19
---

I wanted to like a library book sale purchase of [Rogue Lawyer](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25387351-rogue-lawyer). It had an intriguing premise, thought-out characters, and some gripping court scenes. But I can't quite like it since handles the "multiple plotlines" structure poorly, especially at the end. There are a few elements this structure needs to work, and the book fumbles each of them.

1. **The plot threads need to merge in unexpected, dramatic ways.** I'll concede some threads do help nudge others to their conclusion. But they don't get tied together to a more coherent, "greater than the sum of its parts" conclusion. Some wind up just being supports instead of their own compelling plotlines.
2. **There's no satisfying conclusion.** The main character reflects on what happens, shrugs, and feels depressed about the path they've taken. They didn't combine into a larger lesson unless that lesson is "I give up." Either way, it makes the entire book fizzle out like a misfired firework.
3. **It doesn't foreshadow the plotlines' convergence.** In my opinion, the greatest strength of a multiple plotline structure is the unexpected ways the plotlines can converge. Teasing this result at the start is great since it makes the reader wonder _"how could these stories possibly cause this"_ and set their imagination on fire as they read. Not doing this is wasting one of the best ways to keep the reader's attention.

Want a book that does this right? Read "Big Little Lies." You'll thank me later.
