---
date: 2020-02-14
---

Happy Valentine's Day. Today I shall rant about books.

I gave "The Overton Window" a shot. I saw the author was Glenn Beck, the original political conspiracy theorist of my childhood. I saw the plot was a recycling of his usual ideas. I saw people giving me funny looks when I brought it home. I accepted all these things and tried to forget them as I read it like any other book.

I tried, I did. But I could not finish it. But I'm certain it wasn't from my biases against this man. Instead, it was not a good book. It wasn't good for many reasons, but I'll focus on two big ones.

1. **The dialogue is too preachy.** The dialogue so often reads like a broadcaster going through a block of text. Instead of reading like real people talking, as dialogue should. It takes the reader out of the story since it's more like a sermon than a narrative. It makes the characters feel like idea outlets than actual people. The dialogue rarely drives change or development. It gives you a giant wall of ideas and expects you to accept it and keep going. That may work for a news broadcast, but not for fiction.
2. **It takes too long to get to the point.** The book flap teases a massive, country-shattering event as the hook. The book then doesn't reveal it until at least 45% into it. It should have happened at the 30% mark at the absolute latest. When a reader is getting bored waiting for the major plot events to happen, you're doing fiction wrong. Bait and delays are never worth it.

_I'm all for books having political views. I've read plenty along those lines along the spectrum. But I'm not for badly-written books._
