---
date: 2020-07-14
---

As delicious as meat is, eating it is unsustainable for the planet. But I read something surprising: [we could help save the world be swapping meat with insects](https://www.nbcnews.com/mach/environment/how-eating-crickets-could-help-save-planet-n721416).

For example, crickets take a fraction of the resources to raise compared to cows, are highly nutritious, have fewer calories, and a greater percentage of each can be eaten. It's even better than eating plants!

{% include linkedQuote.html
  quote="Proponents point out that certain bugs have protein levels comparable to conventional meat, and insect protein contains all eight essential amino acids, making it nutritionally superior to plant-based protein."
  article="How crickets could help save the planet"
  website="NBC News"
  url="https://www.nbcnews.com/mach/environment/how-eating-crickets-could-help-save-planet-n721416"
%}

Sadly, there's one big obstacle: **eating bugs is gross.** Many American liberals likely want to save the world, but not at the cost of their Instagram brunch photos.

But I still predict a deteriorating planet will force the whole world to fully accept eating bugs one day. Imagine what it'd be like if crickets became an everyday food:

* McDonalds drive-thrus would serve cholesterol-laden cricket burgers smothered in cheese, mustard, and mayo.
* High-end magazines would analyze the cricket brunches celebrities ate.
* School cafeteria food fights would break out where teens throw fistfuls of dead crickets at each other.
* Halloween would have houses giving little kids caramel-covered crickets.
* Stoners hit with the munchies would get deep-fried crickets delivered late at night.

This could all be real someday. I think of that and feel a touch better about the future, for it is intriguing, revolting, but ultimately pretty tasty.
