---
date: 2021-11-14
---

I've been on a forever search for a certain webcomic. In it, a struggling writer enters a kind of hotel and meets three alternate versions of herself. They include:

1. One that did jail time, went blonde and is a published non-fiction writer.
2. One that fell in love in college, does indie film work but is a loud, bitter cynic.
3. One in the corporate world that's professional and more "in tune" with societal norms.

I apologize if I got any of these details wrong. It's been so long since I read it last, I _want_ to read it again, but I _cannot_ find it online!

But it also gets me thinking about **some alternate versions of me that may be out there.**

1. One that stuck to journalism, works at a newspaper and is being broken down by stress and roommates.,
2. One that also started a lifelong relationship early and had kids. Their career never quite took off but still enjoys their family.
3. One that moved across the country and went a bit "crazy." Each day I live out loud but struggle to get any long-term plans together.
4. One that didn't turn down that CIA referral from my sophomore year. I'm spying on/impersonating/poisoning Russian operatives throughout Europe. Plus I have an earring and tattoo, although I'm not sure what it's a tattoo of.
5. One that can fly around and shoot lasers from my eyes. I hide from society outside of an occasional explosive attack to stir things up.

I hope I can meet my own alternative selves in a hotel like that someday.
